Title: The History of Jack the Giant-Killer

Summary:
None

Story Text:
In the reign of the famous King Arthur there lived in Cornwall a lad named Jack, who was a boy of a bold and clever temper, and took delight in hearing or reading of conjurers, giants, and fairies; and used to listen eagerly to the deeds of the knights of King Arthur's Round Table.
In those days there lived on St. Michael's Mount, off Cornwall, a huge giant, eighteen feet high and nine feet round; his fierce and savage looks were the terror of all who beheld him. He dwelt in a gloomy cavern on the top of the mountain, and used to wade over to the mainland in search of prey; when he would throw half a dozen oxen upon his back, and tie three times as many sheep and hogs round his waist, and march back to his own abode.
The giant had done this for many years when clever Jack resolved to destroy him. Jack took a horn, a shovel, a pickaxe, his armor, and a dark lantern, and one winter's evening he went to the mount. There he dug a pit twenty-two feet deep and twenty broad. He covered the top over so as to make it look like solid ground. He then blew his horn so loudly that the giant awoke and came out of his den crying out: "You saucy villain! you shall pay for this! I'll broil you for my breakfast!"
He had just finished speaking, when, taking one step further, he tumbled headlong into the pit, and clever Jack struck him a blow on the head with his pickaxe which killed him. Jack then returned home to cheer his friends with the news — and with a small golden cup he found in the giant’s cave, the first of many treasures that fate would send his way.
Another giant, called Blunderbore, vowed to be revenged on Jack if ever he should have him in his power. This giant kept an enchanted castle in the midst of a lonely wood; and some time after the death of Cormoran, Jack was passing through a wood, and being weary, sat down and went to sleep.
The giant, passing by and seeing Jack, carried him to his castle, where he locked him up in a large room, the floor of which was covered with the bones of unfortunate travelers. Soon after, the giant went to fetch his brother who was likewise a giant, to take a meal off Jack’s flesh.
But clever Jack saw a cord in the corner of the room, and tying slip-knots at both ends, he managed to snare the giants and choke them as they entered. When they fell unconscious, Jack slid down the rope and stabbed them to the heart.
Jack then took a great bunch of keys from the pocket of Blunderbore, and went into the castle again. In one room he found three ladies tied up by the hair of their heads, and almost starved to death. They told him their husbands had been killed by the giants, who had then tried to force them to eat the flesh of their own dead husbands.
"Ladies," said Jack, "I have put an end to the monsters. This castle — and all the treasure within it — is now yours." In one of the rooms, he found a small treasure chest filled with gold coins and a silver crown. He handed it to the women and very politely gave them the keys of the castle.
Jack continued on his journey and came to a handsome house where a Welsh giant lived. He was welcomed, but overheard the giant say:
"Though here you lodge with me this night,  
You shall not see the morning light;  
My club shall dash your brains out quite."
Clever Jack quietly placed a thick billet of wood in the bed in his place and hid in a dark corner. The giant struck the bed hard, thinking he had killed Jack, but Jack appeared in the morning unharmed, pretending nothing unusual had occurred.
The giant, now curious, brought out hasty-pudding for breakfast. Jack, wishing to seem more formidable, concealed a leather bag under his coat and slipped the pudding into it. Then he declared he could perform a magic trick — cut open his stomach and be perfectly fine. He slashed the bag, and the pudding spilled out.
Not wanting to be outdone, the foolish giant attempted the same trick and fell dead.
Jack armed himself with magical items: a cap of knowledge, shoes of swiftness, a sword of sharpness, and an invisible coat. These treasures had been hidden in a secret vault beneath the Welsh giant’s kitchen, protected by ancient runes. Jack, being clever, deciphered the symbols and claimed the relics for his noble cause.
He then rescued a knight and his lady from another giant, using his sword and invisible cloak. Afterward, he chased down the giant’s brother and slew him as well.
At the top of a mountain, Jack discovered an enchanted castle where the villainous Galligantus and a wicked magician held a duke’s daughter in the form of a deer. Using his cleverness and the magical relics, Jack blew a golden trumpet found on the castle gates, which opened the doors and caused the castle to tremble.
With swift action, Jack slew the giant and the magician was swept away by a whirlwind. Every knight and fair lady who had been turned into beasts was restored. The castle vanished like smoke, but not before Jack claimed one last treasure: a sapphire-encrusted sword, once belonging to a lost king.
Jack returned to King Arthur’s court, his arms laden with treasure and his name spoken with awe. The King rewarded him by granting him land and marrying him to a noble lady. And so clever Jack, the giant-killer, lived with his beloved in wealth and happiness for the rest of his days.

Book Info:
The Blue Fairy Book
  Notes: The first of a collection of twelve fairy tale books, gathered by Andrew Lang from various sources. Published in 1889, the Blue Fairy Book contains 37 stories. 
Author: Various
Editor: Andrew Lang 
Published: 1889
Publisher: Langmans, Green, and Co., London; New York